
Welcome to Week 1 of "Analysis of Algorithms" (aka part I of "Analytic
Combinatorics"). 

The syllabus for COS 488, the Spring 2021 Princeton offering, are on the 
course homepage https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring21/cos488/

This course is entirely online, with lectures and assignments on
this webpage: https://aofa.cs.princeton.edu/online/. 
To get started, watch Lecture 0, which 
gives an overview of the course and then describes a case in point that 
illustrates the practical relevance of the course material. 
To watch it, click on the "0. Cardinality Estimation" link in the 
"Lecture Videos" column, which will take you to the CUvids platform 
that serves the videos. Click on the "Need to subscribe to all modules?" 
button and enter the code aofapusp2022 to get free access to all the videos
for 2022.

We will use the Ed discussion online forum to handle questions and answers 
and the codePost platform to handle submissions and grading. I'll send
more details about them tomorrow.

To keep things synchronized, I'll send an "official" e-mail each week 
(normally on Friday) to people registered in the course
specifying the lectures and assignments for the week. I'll also post 
each of these e-mails in an archive on Ed. This is the first such e-mail. 

Each lecture for the first half of the course corresponds to a chapter
in "An Introduction to the Analysis of Algorithms" (2nd edition), and
everyone is encouraged to study the corresponding chapter in
conjunction with the lectures. The coverage in the book is somewhat
encyclopedic, so people are only expected to turn to the
material associated with what's in the lecture, perhaps scanning
through the rest to see what's there and perhaps find something else
of interest.

We begin our course with an overview of the use of the scientific
method for studying algorithm performance, one of the motivating
applications for analytic combinatorics.

----------
Lecture 1: Analysis of Algorithms. We begin by considering
historical context and motivation for the scientific study of
algorithm performance. Then we consider a classic example that
illustrates the key ingredients of the process: the analysis of
Quicksort. The lecture concludes with a discussion of some resources
that you might find useful during this course.  
----------

Slide 45 of the lecture (“Assignments for next lecture”) is a typical
ending of each online lecture. Since we are going through the material
at a rather quick pace, we do not expect that you will complete all of
the suggested activities, and we will abridge and fully specify the
“problem sets” that you must submit for grading.

Your assignment for this week (a short one, to get the ball rolling),
due at 11:59PM on 
     Thursday, January 27, 2022,
is to write up and submit solutions to 
     Exercises 1.14 and 1.16 
in "Analysis of Algorithms" (second edition). Please note the changes
specified on the booksite (and the errata page). Generally,
you can find the most up-to-date version of each exercise by clicking
on the links in this e-mail or in the "Weekly Assignment" tab on 
the "Online Course Materials" page.

Please get in the habit of checking the "Errata" tab on the sidebar, as
typos/errors in the text and slides are sometimes critical in assigned
problems. Errata are also marked with yellow notes in the slide .pdfs.
(These do not appear in the videos yet.) Please report any errors that you 
might find that are not listed.

Submit your solutions via codePost as files named “AofA1-Q1.pdf" and “AofA1-Q2.pdf".

RS

